# Weekly progress updates for summer scholarship.


## Week One:

The week started out with meetings with Gillian and then Arts Access Aotearoa and me familiarising myself with the environment I will be developing in for the next few weeks. At the meeting with Gillian the intended outcome for the project was to make a skill that takes what eddie did for the eventfinda api and either extend it or create a new skill based on what he did for the Arts Access Aotearoa database. Another thing that I want to ensure during the development of this project is to build it in such a way that if someone else comes to this project in future there is quality documentation of how the project was built/designed, the decision making process involved and also that it be built in javascipt for the best possible access to documentation. Not to say that eddies work wasn't great, it was, but his readme/documentation is not particularly verbose or clear. The project is also entirely built in typescript which while being a subset of javascript it is a significantly more niche syntactical application (meaning that if looking up documentation for a projject you then have to parse that into typescript syntax). My main focus this week was to acclimate to an alexa skill development environment and get to grips with the scope of the project. The biggest hurdle that we have encountered thus far with the project is that flightdec/ArtsAccessAotearoa does not have an existing api, meaning that the functionality of the project hinges on that becoming available. The only other option I can think of is some kind of python scraper (Im familiar with the concept but I haven't really done much with python). The other thing that I have encountered is the Jovo framework which allows you to build skills/applications for both alexa and google assistant simultaneously which would increase the availability of the voice skill. I would have to look up the viability of it as a development option though. In short the first week has inolved a lot of familiarization with the development environment as well as the scope of the project and potential hurdles that we might encounter.

## Week Two: 
On monday I spent the day looking at potential deployment modes for the skill as well as possibly better frameworks for the development of said skill because I did not at that point have any access to the API. On tuesday I got access to the api but the data it was returning was broken (in a way that was not immediately apparent) so I spent the day writing and re writing my code to try and parse the data correctly at which point I talked to another dev friend and after they loked at it as well and agreed it was quite garbled data I sent an email to logan asking him to fix the api. Wednesday again was a lot of back and forth trying to get the broken api to a point that i could easily parse the information that it sends over. By the end of wednesday the JSON data wasn't fixed but it was a lot better than where it started from. I also began drawing out mindmaps/process in earnest to try and get a better picture of how the interface will work for the users/ what the most intuitive use structure would look like. The general gist of intended outcome I wrote out for this skill was that the skill is used to find an event or events that meet personalised accessibility needs. Which means the search structure needs to be one that is flexible in the way it can be refined. It also became pretty evident that I need to ask logan to add two more pieces of data to the api if possible. The First being the search should also return the accesiblity data (the php enquiry definitely has access to this information because you can search for things like NZSL and Audio Described and it returns only entries that contain these things but the response body doesnt return any of this information). I am about to write an email to Logan asking if he can add wheelchair accesibility, cost and contact details to the api response body but in the meantime I have built a nodejs based scraper (more stable than a python scraper because it only searches specific html elements and either returns a value or a null but it can only be applied after the inital search enquiry has been sent)that can search for wheelchair accesibilty data and cost. So in conclusion week two was dealing with a lot of techical teething problems and trying to formulate a plan of attack for the actual development process. I now have about 2 weeks to get a working version of the skill ready. 